With over 4,400 votes casted on our poll a
couple of weeks ago, you guys have decided
who the top ten Jedi that survived Order 66
are based on their popularity among the fanbase.
Also a heads up there will be major spoilers
for The Clone Wars and Star Wars Rebels TV
shows, as well as the Republic comic series.
At number 10, with 102 votes, is A'Sharad
Hett.
Having a far more unique introduction of the
Jedi Order than most, A’Shared Hett originally
spent much of his childhood and teenage years
within the Tuskan tribes of Tatooine.
His father was once a Jedi Knight who exiled
himself to the deserts of Tatooine, eventually
taking over the Tuskan tribes as he believed
it was his responsibility to both lead them
for their own survival, while also minimising
the harm they did to the local inhabitants
of the desert planet.
As a result, Hett was raised with both Jedi
and Tuskan tribe traditions, later becoming
an apprentice of his father who taught him
the ways of the force.
Hett’s formal inclusion to the Jedi Order
happened following the death of his father
and the destruction of his Tuskan tribe during
a conflict that involved the Hutt clans.
He was originally taken in as Kai-Adi-Mundi’s
apprentice, but later was transferred to the
Dark Woman who believed she was a better fit
to the unique padawan.
Despite now being within the Jedi Order, Hett
still remained clothed in traditional Tuskan
masks and coverings.
While for the most part he fit in within the
Jedi quite easily, he did have a special relationship
with Anakin Skywalker.
Both him and Anakin were brought to the Order
around the same time, and because of this
Hett was one of the very few people young
Anakin could relate to during his early years
within the Temple.
However, due to the missions Hett was called
upon, the two natives of Tatooine barely saw
each other up until the start of the Clone
Wars.
Like most Jedi around his age and rank, the
now Knighted Hett was made into a General
during the clone wars.
He was eventually assigned a mission alongside
a far different Anakin from the one he once
knew as a kid.
During this mission he learned of the Chosen
One’s slaughter of a Tusken village out
of a fit of rage.
Hoping to ease his unsettled comrade’s emotions,
Hett for the first time removed his Tuskan
coverings to reveal his Human appearance,
to show Anakin that he was a Human just like
him despite his savage heritage.
From then on he would remain without his Tuskan
coverings.
When Order 66 was issued, Hett was involved
in the Siege of Saleucami.
After cutting down the clone troopers that
were assigned to execute him, Hett believed
he was among the only survivors of the Jedi
Order.
Having no where else to turn to, he returned
home to Tatooine to reclaim his Tusken heritage.
He became a Tuskan warlord like his father
before him, leading his people to reclaim
the sands of Tatooine they believed were rightfully
theirs.
One day, Hett and his army came across a small
moisture farm that was guarded by the Jedi
Master Obi-Wan Kenobi.
Sensing that Hett was close to the dark side
and having sworn to defend Luke at all costs,
Obi-Wan was forced to engage against Hett
who refused to halt the attack.
Obi-Wan not only beat Hett in their duel,
but he humanilated the man by unmasking his
face; which was considered the biggest insult
one can do in Tuskan culture.
So his tribe left him and Hett was forced
to leave the planet after agreeing to do so
with Obi-Wan who spared his life in exchange.
Hett became a bounty hunter but was later
captured by the Yuuzhan Vong which experimented
on him.
Following that, he turned to the darkside
and became Darth Crate, becoming the ruler
of a future new Sith Order that would adopt
the Rule of One philosophy.
Based on the comments, many of you voted for
A'Sharad Hett due to his unique and long lasting
story where he went from being a Tuskan Warrior,
to Jedi Knight, and eventually a Sith Lord.
His duel wielding lightsaber style and ability
to go up against some of the best duelists
of his era were also among the other reasons
people voted for him.
At Number 9, with 105 votes, is Maris Brood.
As a Zabrak Padawan of the Jedi Order, Maris
Brood was trained in isolation on a starship
alone with her Master.
Due to this seclusion, when Order 66 was given
they were left alive.
Having sensed the disturbance in the force
caused by the deaths of fellow Jedi, Brood’s
master went out to investigate to see what
happened, only to later give a final message
to his padawan to warn her that the Sith had
taken over and killed everyone.
Brood almost fell to the darkside in an attempt
to avenge her Master and the Jedi Order, but
was intercepted by Shaak Ti who was able to
convince the young Zabrak to come with her
to Felucia.
There she and Shaak Ti lived among the native
jungle Felucian Tribes for around the next
15 years.
At some point, Darth Vader’s Sith assassin
Starkiller came to the planet and killed Shaak
Ti, resulting in Maris Brood to completely
fall to the dark side.
She would later kidnap Senator Bail Organa
who was on Felucia attempting to recruit Shaak
Ti, but would lose her hostage after being
defeated and spared by Galen Marek who had
his own uses for the Alderaan Senator.
Her fate after being allowed to live is currently
unknown.
From the comments it appears most of you voted
for her because of her unique, guard shoto
lightsaber hilts, as well as for her unorthodox
fighting style.
At number 8, with 114 votes, is K’Kruhk.
He was a Whiphid Jedi Master and is best known
for just refusing to die.
In his first battle of the Clone Wars he was
believed to have been killed, only to return
back to the Jedi Order shortly afterwards.
Same thing happened with his fight against
General Grievous on Hypori, where he was believed
to have been killed.
But instead when his body is greatly injured,
it goes into a deep hibernation state, giving
the appearance of death.
During hibernation he is able to fully recover
in a few weeks.
Following his survival of Order 66, K'Kruhk
came across a group of Jedi younglings and
padawans; to which he took with him on an
uninhabited planet and protected them for
the entire Jedi Purge era.
K’Kruhk lived long enough to join Luke Skywalker’s
New Jedi Order, becoming a Master within the
temple of Yavin 4.
The Whiphid even lived past Luke; becoming
a senior member of the new Jedi Council during
the era of the Rule of One Sith as they made
their appearance within the galaxy.
At number 7, with 142 votes, is Kanan Jarrus.
As a padawan of the Jedi Order, Kanan was
actually named Caleb Dume.
He survived after his master Depa Billaba
sacrificed herself during Order 66, leaving
Caleb all alone.
The following years, he changed his name to
Kanan Jarrus as a way to avoid authorities,
and he let go of his Jedi past, keeping his
Lightsaber broken apart and hidden from everyone.
He took on many jobs, such as a cargo transporter,
but usually quit after a few months as a way
to keep on the move.
He eventually met Hera and joined her fight
against the empire.
They later created the Ghost crew and became
well-known rebels in the Outer rim.
Kanan later began to teach Ezra Bridger to
become a Jedi, and he himself later became
a Jedi Knight as he was knighted by a force
vision Sentinel.
His story finally came to an end after he
sacrificed himself to save Hera shortly before
the Liberation of Lothal.
At number 6, with 157 votes, is Quinlan Vos.
Serving as an undercover agent for a majority
of the Clone Wars, Vos was very essential
in his contribution by providing vital intelligence
to the Republic that gave them intel of future
Separatist invasion plans and the like.
Quinlan Vos came from a people known as the
Kiffar, which were uniquely connected to the
force that allowed them to see past events
by touching affected objects.
He was able to effectively use this power
of his during his undercover missions to learn
the secrets of his enemies by simply touching
objects they had interacted with.
His survival of Order 66 differed in both
Canon and Legends.
In Canon, Quinlan Vos’ survival of Order
66 is only assumed as his name appeared among
the Inquisitors list of names of possible
survivors.
Seeing how Vos was likely in an undercover
mission during the time of Order 66, he wouldn’t
have had any clones around to attack him,
let alone confirm his death or survival.
In Legends however, Quinlan Vos was on Kashyyyk
serving as a Jedi General as he had exhausted
his use as an undercover agent by that point.
The clones in his company blasted him with
a turbolaser cannon from a Juggernaut tank
when Order 66 was issued.
Vos barely survived and made a run for it
within the deep jungles of Kashyyyk, eventually
coming to the conclusion that the entire Jedi
Order must have suffered a similar fate of
betrayal as him.
Although initially hoping to avenge the death
of his fellow Jedi, Vos’ soon accepted that
such an act would be near impossible for him
to accomplish on his own.
He ultimately took refuge among the deep jungles
of Kashyyyk where he was protected by a Wookiee
tribe that was loyal to the Jedi, where he
met up with the woman he served with as an
undercover agent and together they had a son
named Korto Vos.
Quinlan Vos’ story ends there, where he
likely spent the rest of his life in hiding
with his family among the deep jungles of
Kashyyyk.
Also fun fact: Quinlan Vos first appeared
in Episode 1: The Phantom Menace where he
can be scene in the background on Tatooine,
in which he was on an undercover mission.
Later he came to regret not realizing that
Qui-Gon needed dire help of getting off the
planet, noting he would have helped his fellow
Jedi Master gain access to a ship had he known
of his situation.
Most of Quinlan Vos’s votes came from those
who enjoyed his journey from being initially
obsessed with destroying the Sith, to eventually
accepting his destiny to something else, like
raising his own son and being with his family.
At number 5, with 232 votes, is Shaak Ti.
While initially not regarded as powerful as
many of her peers when she was first seated
on the High Council, focusing most of her
time on her negotiation and diplomacy skills
around that time, Shaak Ti quickly adapted
into becoming one of the finest warriors of
the entire Order after receiving a full dose
of the harsh reality of war during the early
stages of the Clone Wars.
After recovering from her injuries dealt by
General Grievous, Shaak Ti went on to master
the fighting style that involved balancing
out lightsaber strikes and direct force abilities,
while also heavily relying on using the environment
to her own advantage; whether it be by using
it to directly attack and distract her opponents,
or by consuming the life forces of the nearby
vegetation to empower herself.
By the end of the war, she was likely among
the top 5 most powerful members of the High
Council, with it not being too unreasonable
to argue her position among the top 3 right
behind Yoda and Mace Windu.
While in Canon she has been stated to have
died during the Jedi Temple attack, in Legends
she was able to escape and flee to Felucia.
She came across the unsettled padawan Maris
Brood and was able to convince the lost Jedi
to join her on Felucia.
While on Felucia, Shaak Ti covered nearly
the entire planet in light side energies and
created a small community of Felucian natives
that were solely loyal to her, in preparation
for the inevitable confrontation with the
Sith.
And that day indeed did come when Darth Vader’s
assassin Starkiller arrived to finish off
one of the last surviving Jedi Council Members.
When their duel started, Shaak Ti initially
pummeled Starkiller with her overwhelming
force abilities and the strikes from the massive
Sarlacc pit that she commanded.
Although it appeared Shaak Ti outmatched the
Sith Assassin; Starkiller’s brutal training,
experience in killing other Jedi, and most
importantly, unbreakable commitment to satisfying
his Master’s will allowed him to push through
the punishment he was dealing against long
enough to strike against Shaak Ti to greatly
injure her.
Whether accepting her defeat or believing
her opponent had enough light in him for redemption,
Shaak Ti decided to end her own life by throwing
herself into the Sarlacc Pit right before
Starkiller, who for a split second attempted
to save her, an act he came to question for
a long time afterwards as to why a small part
of him tried to save her.
Funny enough, when Shaak Ti died, the entire
planet had a rapid shift into the dark side
to make up for her lightside empowerment of
Felucia, which unnaturally shifted the energies
to the light for too long.
As a way to make up for that long imbalance,
the planet turned into the other extreme by
falling into complete darkness, corrupting
nearly every living being on it, including
even Maris Brood.
Many of you voted for Shaak Ti due to her
being one of the last surviving High Council
members after Order 66, as well as for her
choosing the planet Felucia for her hiding
place, becoming the chaotic planet’s lightside
beacon in the process.
At number 4, with 297 votes, is Rahm Kota.
During the Clone Wars, Rahm Kota refused to
lead an army of Clones as he both distrusted
them and believed they couldn’t be as creative
as regular beings for soldiers.
This caused him to create his own private
militia during the war, that included members
from planetary security forces, mercancy groups,
and freed prisoners of war.
This decision of his ultimately saved his
life as when Order 66 was given there were
no clones to attack him.
When news of the betrayal came, Kota and his
men stole a Republic cruiser and fled into
the Outer Rim.
For the next few years Kota amassed a small
army and a couple of bases to oppose the new
Galactic Empire.
He was one of the earliest, large rebel cells
that openly opposed the Empire by striking
their operations within the Outer Rim regions.
He attempted to bait Darth Vader to come fight
him, who instead ended up sending his Sith
assassin Starkiller to go kill Kota instead.
Starkiller was successful in defeating the
Jedi Master, blinding him in the process,
but was unable to confirm his death as the
old man fell from the platform they were fighting
on.
Kota survived and gave up, becoming a drunk
for the next couple of months.
He eventually was brought back into action
by Starkiller, who deceived the Jedi into
thinking he was an ally, helping him gather
the Empire’s allies into one place for them
to be destroyed all at once.
Eventually Kota and the other captured rebel
leaders were saved by the redeemed Starkiller,
now known simply as Galen Marek.
After the rescue, Kota remained within the
newly created Rebel Alliance and led some
of its earliest battles, including the attack
on Kamino.
He eventually mentored the Starkiller clone
who came to his aide following his escape
from Vader.
Kota remained within the Rebel Alliance up
until the Battle of Yavin, where his fate
afterwards is currently unknown; though it’s
likely he died sometime shortly afterwards
seeing how he was not present in any other
conflicts after the first Death Star’s destruction.
Many of Rahm Kota’s votes came from people
who liked his story and appearance in the
Force Unleashed games, as well as for him
raising his own army during the Clone Wars,
and later using it to fight against the Empire
on his own.
At number 3, with 314 votes, is Yoda.
Serving as the final Grand Master of the old
Jedi Order, Yoda was regarded as the most
powerful Jedi to ever exist in history up
to that point in time.
After failing to destroy the Sith Lord Darth
Sidious, Yoda fled to Dagobah where he remained
secluded from the rest of the galaxy as his
powerful lightside presence was covered by
the planet’s dark side energies.
While there, he remained connected to the
living force and was able to communicate and
help guide both surviving and forthcoming
Jedi throughout the galaxy during the dark
times.
His ultimate, final contribution was helping
train Luke Skywalker in the ways of the force,
who ended up saving his own father and bringing
an end to the rule of the Sith.
Yoda got much love for his commitment to guiding
other Jedi survivors in the force throughout
the Great Purge after Order 66, and for being
the one who trained Luke.
He also got votes for the way he survived
Order 66 and how he infiltrated the Temple
to find out exactly what had happened.
At number 2, with 929 votes, is Obi-Wan Kenobi.
Given the daunting task of training the believed
Chosen One at a very young age, Obi-Wan was
given perhaps the greatest responsibility
of any other Jedi of his era.
When the Clone Wars erupted, Obi-Wan was made
into a High General and given command of the
Third System Army of the Republic, which included
the 212th Attack Battalion.
The amount of punishment Obi-Wan faced during
the war was second to none; as he survived
multiple brutal confrontations from the separatists
most powerful minions, including Ventress
and Durge.
He also survived multiple deadly explosions
like the Coruscant Administrative Sector terrorist
attack, and the extreme torture and imprisonment
at the hands of Ventress.
At first the Sith wished to turn Obi-Wan to
the darkside, believing he’d be a useful
asset to them, but eventually decided his
commitment to the Jedi was too great for him
to betray it.
As the war progressed, Palpatine went out
of his way to stage Obi-Wan’s invasion plans
in order to have the Jedi Master get killed,
believing his death would have helped Anakin’s
fall to the dark side, which is why Obi-Wan
encountered the Jedi slayer General Grievous
so many times across the war, as Palpatine
was hoping the cyborg general would be able
to kill Anakin’s Master once and for all.
But Obi-Wan was too much of a beast to die
like that, and actually ended up killing the
injured General Grievous late in the war.
When Order 66 happened, Obi-Wan survived the
impact blast from the AT-TE mass-driver cannon
and later met up with Yoda, where together
they learned of Anakin’s fall to the darkside.
Devastated by his apprentice’s fall, Obi-Wan
did what he believed was necessary and sought
out to defeat Anakin, in which he was able
to gravely injure the fallen Jedi.
Following that, Obi-Wan made it his life mission
to protect Anakin’s son, Luke Skywalker,
by overseeing him during his childhood on
Tatooine.
Eventually together Obi-Wan and Luke attempted
to bring the stolen Death Star plans to the
Rebel Alliance, but were taken in by the Death
Star’s tractor beam.
While aboard the Imperial Superweapon, Obi-Wan
confronted his former apprentice once again,
but this time allowed himself to be struck
down, as the Jedi Master believed he would
be a far greater help as a force ghost to
Luke than he would have been in the living
flesh.
Before we reveal number 1, we have a few honorable
mentions.
First is the Grand Inquisitor, for getting
the 11th most votes on the poll.
He was originally a Jedi Temple guard, who
was eventually swayed to betray the Jedi after
hearing Barriss Offee’s speech during her
trial as he was among her escort.
Second is Ikrit, for having perhaps the most
epic Order 66 survival story of any Jedi;
where he literally slept through the entire
thing on Yavin 4.
He also slept through the whole Clone Wars
as well, only waking up about 40 years later
after being discovered by a few of Luke’s
students.
The final honourable mention is Empatojayos
Brand, who after surviving grieve injuries
following Order 66, was able to become a King
on an entire planet, bringing his Jedi ideals
into how he ruled his people.
Finally at number 1, with 1,103 votes, is
Ahsoka Tano.
She was the Jedi padawan of Anakin Skywalker
who ultimately left the Jedi order following
a false accusation from the Jedi Council who
believed she was involved in the attack on
the Temple.
Despite this, she later returned to help the
Republic during its invasion of Mandalore,
to which she confronted Maul.
While the full details of this confrontation
are not entirely out, as it’s likely it
will be fully shown to us in the upcoming
new season of The Clone Wars, we do know that
when Order 66 was issued during that Republic
Siege, she escaped with the help of Captain
Rex.
They later faked their deaths, with Ahsoka
burying her original lightsabers.
She was later hunted by an Inquisitor, known
as the Sixth Brother.
She was able kill him and then took his red
lightsaber crystals, purified the crystals
with the light side, and they became white
as a result, which she continued to use from
then on in her new lightsaber hilts.
She eventually met with Bail Organa and joined
the Rebel Alliance, taking the codename Fulcrum,
to which she was tasked in recruiting and
connecting active rebel cells.
Later, she fought Darth Vader and found out
that he used to be her old master, Anakin
Skywalker.
During their duel, Ahsoka was pulled into
the World Between Worlds realm by Ezra, who
likely pulled her into the future as well
by bring her into his present.
She was allowed to return back to the normal
galaxy where she entered the ancient Temple
on Malachor.
She was eventually able to leave the planet
and meet up with Sabine following the defeat
of the Empire.
Together they made it their mission to find
Ezra after he disappeared following the Liberation
of Lothal.
Ahsoka got many votes for how she survived
Order 66 by faking her death with Rex, as
well as for always fighting for what she believed
was right, and for helping build up the early
foundation of what would eventually become
the Rebel Alliance that went on to fight against
the Empire.